Azure:

Services

1. Azure App Services (AWS Elastic Beanstalk): Platform as a service (PaaS) provides fully managed server, Use App Service when you're 
migrating existing web applications to Azure, and when you need a fully-managed hosting platform for your web apps. You can also use App 
Service when you need to support mobile clients or expose REST APIs with your app.


2. Azure VMs (AWS EC2): Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) provides full control on server, Use Virtual Machines when you want full control 
over your application infrastructure or to migrate on-premises application workloads to Azure without having to make changes.

3. Azure Function (AWS Lambda): Serverless and Pay as you used, Use Azure Functions when you have code that is triggered by other Azure 
services, by web-based events, or on a schedule. You can also use Functions when you don't need the overhead of a complete hosted project 
or when you only want to pay for the time that your code runs

4. Azure Service Fabric : Distributed system platform, follow microservice architecture
Service Fabric is a good choice when you're creating an application or rewriting an existing application to use a microservice architecture. 
Use Service Fabric when you need more control over, or direct access to, the underlying infrastructure.

5. Azure Cosmos DB : globally distributed, multi-model database service, When your application needs document, table, or graph databases, 
including MongoDB databases, with multiple well-defined consistency models.

6. Azure Storage : Offers durable, highly available storage, When your app stores nonrelational data, such as key-value pairs (tables), blobs, 
files shares, or messages (queues).

7. Azure SQL Database: An Azure-based version of the Microsoft SQL Server engine for storing relational tabular data in the cloud. SQL Database 
provides predictable performance, scalability with no downtime, business continuity, and data protection.

8. Azure Data Factory : moving existing on-primise data to azure, It is the cloud-based ETL and data integration service that allows you to 
create data-driven workflows for orchestrating data movement and transforming data at scale


9. Azure AD (Active Directory): Microsoft multitenant, cloud-based identity and access management service, When you want to provide an SSO 
experience, work with Graph-based data, or authenticate domain-based users

10. App Service Authentication : When you want to enable authentication in an App Service app by using Azure AD, social identity providers, 
or both

11. Application Insights : 

12. Azure Monitor : for monitoring, service that helps you to visualize, query, route, archive, and act on the metrics and logs that you 
generate with your Azure infrastructure and resources

13. Azure Resource Manager (AWS Cloud Formation): lets you work with the resources in your application as a group. You can deploy, update, or delete all the resources 
in a single, coordinated operation



Account Administrator - full control over subscription
Service Administrator - full control over all services in subscription

Resource Group : azure services are also called resources, resource group contain all the resources for your application that you want to work 
as a unit

User can grant access at three level - 
1. Subscription
2. Resource Group
3. Individual Resource



Storage - 
Redundancy Type
1. Local Redundancy Storage - if copy of data is present in same Availability zone but in different racks and if AZ goes down then we can not access the data

2. Zone Redundancy Storage - if copy of data is present in two different zone and one zone is down then also we can access the data due to other zone, 
data is highly available.

3. Geo Redundancy Storage - Data is redundant accross region, so copy of data is present accross region and available only when entire region is
 down not only zone. (best for diaster recovery but not highly available)
 

4. Geo Zone Redundancy Storage - Data is redundant accross region and zone, so copy of data is present accross region and zone and highly 
available data

5. Read Access Geo Redundancy Storage and Read Access Geo Zone Redundancy : give access of data from other region when region failovers not happen,
for managing the load or traffic.

Storage Type:
1. Hot Access Tier - when object used frequently, storage cost high, data transfer rate is low

2. Cold Access Tier - when object used in frequently, low storage cost, data transfer rate is high

3. Achive Tier - when object used rarely, low storage cost, data retrieval rate is high

Lifecycle management policy - we can set up policy for transferring data from one tier to another.



Azure Blob Storage + Azure Data Lake Storage Gen1 = Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2

Ans - You get the best of both worlds. File system semantics, directory and file-level security 
capabilities from ADLS Gen1 are combined with the low-cost, tiered storage, high availability/disaster 
recovery capabilities from Azure Blob Storage.



Modes of Spark:
1. Local Mode - Used for training/development purpose, spark master and spark worker node lying on same machine

2. Client Mode - spark master/driver lying on client machine and zob submitted to worker node, if client machine
goes done then zob aborted

3. Cluster Mode - spark master/ driver node created on cluster, so when submitting the job from machine it will
come to driver node and then go to worker node, used in production so if machine goes down then job won't be aborted.

Resource Manager
1. Standalone - Resource manager is residing on master node only and managing resource allocation via communication 
with cluster manager, give information back to driver program

2. Yarn/Mesos - It's own separate cluster apart from master node, driver manager communicate with yarn for 
resource allocation.



https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/guides/developer/azure-developer-guide